When you open an application, it's going to show up on your screen obviously,
and then when you hover over the icon, you'll get a live preview by default,
and notice that is live.
I don't know if you can see the blinking cursor in the peak thumbnail,
but it's there, and then you can select it.
So if you have more than one instance of PowerShell running,
for instance, I'm going to open up a second console,
we're going to see multiple peak Windows and notice that you can close them
selectively from here or just go to them selectily from here.
You can rearrange your shortcuts just by dragging and dropping them.
You can invoke the jump list just by right-clicking as I said before.
The File Explorer icon is particularly useful for that.
Notice that if we right-click the File Explorer icon,
we can see recent items that we've browsed to and you can also
pin commonly accessed folders and locations,
very useful, especially Downloads if you do file downloads from the internet.
On the right-hand side of the taskbar,
we have what's called the Notification area.
This can get kind of cluttered, but of course, you can customize how it behaves.
You'll notice that my taskbar may look a little
different from how you have yours setup.
I have some things turned off.
If we right-click an empty area of the taskbar and come up to Task View button,
this is something that you might have.
Task View is a way to work with multiple open windows.
When you click Task View,
you get a nice tiled collection of windows that are open on that
system and these could be application instances,
like you see here, I have PowerShell and I have Microsoft Edge,
and then I can left-click the one that I want to bring to the foreground.
There are other cool things you can do like snap windows.
Do you see what I did there?
This is using the mouse and left-click and left dragging the
window to a border and you see that halo,
that means it's going to wrap that window to the halfway
point and then any other open windows will show up as tiles
and this provides a nice interface,
a nice way when I'm doing a lot of file copying,
for instance,
I may have two instances of File Explorer open and I
may want to tile them this way.
You can also do other kinds of tiles.
If you go to the top, that'll do a maximize.
If you go to the bottom, it doesn't look like it does anything,
but at least it goes to the left or right.
In the corners, this is a power user tip right here.
The corner allows you to tile up to four Windows, which is pretty convenient.
Now I could do a third one down in the lower left,
or potentially, I could have four tiled windows.
Those are features that are enabled by default and overridable
by visiting settings as you would imagine.
Now I have a bunch of icons.
We don't need to describe what each one does here,
but if you right-click each one of those icons,
you're going to get a jump list, at least for most of them,
with different options.
This is a brand-new app that shipped in the latest update in Fall 2017
allowing us to connect with our contacts more meaningfully.
If I right-click my One Drive icon, I can get to settings.
Again, the right-click is magic.
If you left-click or double left-click,
it'll take a default action on whatever notification program it is.
In this case, if I double left-click the One Drive,
it shows me from my Microsoft account, my One Drive folders.
Over on the very right, we have the notification system, which is super cool.
By default, any apps that have something to tell you,
your email program letting you know you have a new message,
your calendar app letting you know you have an upcoming appointment,
these will show up in your notifications list.
So I really love this feature myself.
When you left-click it,
besides seeing notifications that you can always dismiss by
clicking the close icon that will appear,
you'll see down below we can get to, again,
some really handy options.
Quiet hours, for instance, will suppress notifications.
When I'm recording these modules, for instance,
I have my notification center snoozing because I don't
want to be interrupted while I work.
We can get to our network connections really easily
and browse different networks, really handy,
especially all settings,
which opens up the Windows settings app at the ground floor.
Finally, everybody wants to know how to customize the desktop behavior.
If you right-click an empty area of the desktop,
we have a personalize option and that is simply a shortcut back into Settings,
back into Personalization, the Background tab.
We were here just a moment ago looking at Start and Taskbar settings,
and if you want to change your background,
you can select from the list Picture, Solid Color,
or Slideshow and then you could choose either a Microsoft granted picture
or you can click Browse to find a picture that you have your system that
maybe you've downloaded from the internet.
If it is a picture, you can choose whether you want to tile it,
stretch it, fit it,
it's going to depend upon the screen resolution that you're using.
If you're using a solid color background,
that's one of the options here,
you can choose a background color or even a custom color.
This option, believe it or not, wasn't in the original version of Windows 10,
kind of annoying.
Colors are cool because it allows you to customize the accent colors.
Notice how my title bar is this really nice blue.
The reason for that is that I have that color selected.
Notice that you can have Windows automatically pick a
color based on your background.
It noticed that I'm using whatever color this is,
aqua, remember I'm color blind, and it will choose one that's complimentary,
otherwise, you can override it.
Like I tend to like bolder colors like blues because well I'm color blind.
Whether you want transparency options,
whether you want the accent to also affect the Start menu and the
taskbar as you just saw and title bars and so forth.
So there is a lot of settings.
Your homework assignment, by the way, is to invoke this settings dialog,
go to Personalization and go through all the options and test them out until you understand what they all do.